We learned how to send and use parameters
but let me now show a problem we do have with this. In order to be able to show the problem,
I will adjust my header here to duplicate this only to have user 1 and 2 and therefore load the users
1 and 2 here,
so a very simple change with two different IDs being passed now.
Now with that, if I go to the application and reload it, if I click on user 1, we load user 1 and click
on user 2, we load user 2
but do you see that? The ID is not updated,
the ID remains at one. The reason for this is that this component where we use that, the user.vue
file, the user component here isn't recreated
if we are already on that component and then only the path changes but we would load the same component
again. Vuejs will not recreate the component,
it will save these resources and well simply keep the existing component.
That of course is an issue
if some pieces on this component have to change, like the ID here, therefore we have to watch for
these router params to change
and if they change, we want to update the pieces on our page which need to be updated depending on our
parameters.
Well for this, we can use something we learned about a long time ago in this course, watch, we can set up
a watcher and we can watch our route like this, $route.
This now defines that whatever $route changes and keep in mind, the route does change,
it's only that ID is not updated here because this is no computed or dynamic component
but here, we can watch for route changes and then execute any code we want to execute whenever this occurs.
So here, this actually is a function and we will get two arguments passed to this function by vue router,
to and from,
so where are we coming from,
which route are we coming from and to which route are we going.
Well of course, it's the same route but there is one important thing, we do have our new params stored
on the to route,
this new route which is getting loaded.
So here I can simply set this ID equal to to.params.Id, remember to just is a route,
so not this $route, just to, this will be the new route which gets loaded.
And if I do it like this and I reload the page here, now you see the ID is adjusted when I switch the
page because now I'm watching for changes
and of course you could execute more code here which is why I didn't choose a computed property here
which of course should also work if you use this $route.params.id.
And with that, we're now reacting to that and now we're really using the route parameters we're passing
here to create a reactive application and using the data we're sending through the URL.